=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

AWS::IP - Get and search AWS IP ranges in a caching, auto-refreshing way

=head1 VERSION

version 0.01

=head2 SYNOPSIS

  use AWS::IP;

  my $aws = AWS::IP->new(600, '/tmp/aws_ip_cache');
  my $aws_ip_data = $aws->get_raw_data;

  my $cidrs = $aws->get_cidrs;

  for (@$cidrs)
  {
    ...
  }

  my $ec2_cidrs = $aws->get_cidrs_by_service('EC2');

  # time passes, get updated ip list
  $aws_ip_data = $aws->get_raw_data;

  # or start a new program with the same cache_path

=head2 DESCRIPTION

AWS L<publish|https://ip-ranges.amazonaws.com/ip-ranges.json> their IP ranges, which periodically change. This module downloads and serializes the IP ranges into a Perl data hash reference. It caches the data, and if the cache expires, re-downloads a new version. This can be helpful if you want to block all AWS IP addresses and periodically refresh the blocked IPs.

=head2 new ($cache_timeout_secs, [$cache_path])

Creates a new AWS::IP object and sets up the cache. Requires an number for the cache timeout seconds. Optionally takes a cache path argument. If no cache path is supplied, AWS::IP will use a random temp directory. If you want to reuse the cache over multiple processes, provide a cache path.

=head2 get_raw_data

Returns the entire raw IP dataset as a Perl data structure.

=head2 get_cidrs

Returns an arrayref of the L<CIDRs|http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing> in the AWS IP address data.

=head2 get_cidrs_by_region ($region)

Returns an arrayref of CIDRs matching the provided region.

=head2 get_cidrs_by_service ($service)

Returns an arrayref of CIDRs matching the provided service.

=head2 get_regions

Returns an arrayref of the regions in the AWS IP address data.

=head2 get_services

Returns an arrayref of the services (Amazon, EC2 etc) in the AWS IP address data.

=head2 SEE ALSO

L<AWS::Networks> - is similar to this module but does not provide cacheing.

Amazon's L<page|http://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-ip-ranges.html> on AWS IP ranges.

=head1 AUTHOR

David Farrell <dnmfarrell@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by David Farrell.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
